Project link: https://html.lizrodrigues.sites.grinnell.edu/GeckoParentStory.html

My goal for this project was to create an interactive game in which users could select a pet and make choices that would either 
increase or decrease the pet’s happiness meter. As the user interacts with the game interface, they develop a relationship with 
their pet and learn its likes and dislikes to earn the most points before the story ends. I wanted to create at least 3 story 
lines, one for each pet. Visually, I wanted the colors to match the theme of each pet and their personalities. I also wanted to 
create a story line that was easy to follow and accessible to a wide range of people, so I kept word choice and text length in 
mind as I considered these stylistic choices most important to engagement. 

Creating my project, I took advantage of the interactivity of a web-based medium by implementing interactive text into my story. 
As the user clicks through the story, they have the option to select one of two choices which when clicked take them to the next 
part of the story. I opted for this style instead of a button because it is most efficient. You’ll also notice that some of the 
story includes text and images. I included images of geckos to help the user picture the situations being described. In instances 
where the user makes a good choice, they are rewarded with a point. This is indicated in the text below the story descriptions. 
One of the pages in my storyline also includes an audio clip of a scream indicating that the user has made a poor choice and that 
the gecko is not happy with it. By including audio, I hoped to further engage the user in the story in a fun way.  

One of the most significant challenges I faced while creating this project was creating the point system. I’d initially imagined 
it would be the star of the show of my twine project. However, in the end, I was disappointed when I could not figure out how to 
implement it. Yet, I did learn a lot about “if, then” statements while looking at twine resources. Instead of completely 
abandoning my initial idea, I instead wrote points directly into the story. While this wasn’t the point system progress bar I’d 
imagined in my story board, it was representative of a challenge I could try to tackle in my final project.  

What surprised me about the process was how much easier things became the more familiar I got with the format of twine. When I 
discovered how to use different macros, an entire word of formatting and picture orientation opened to me. At the beginning, I 
would have liked a little bit more guidance about how to use twine, but by the end of this project I realized that leaving the 
project more open-ended allowed for deeper research and engagement in the overall final product. I felt very accomplished when I 
was able to problem solve on my own and proud of the result because of the work I had to put in to figure things out. I did not 
expect this would be my experience when starting this project. 
